---
layout: article
title: "My personal tips for incoming exchange students at SNU "
article_id: 106
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Alyssa Steyn"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/abe221a4-a5c2-48e1-8ca5-62c9cc37793e.jpg"
publish_date: 2023-06-01T04:12:54.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-15T13:46:53.000Z
view_count: 23
---

<br>An exchange semester at Seoul National University (SNU)  is a truly indescribable experience. It is an entirely new university culture and you will have plenty more to discover beyond getting surprised by the sheer size of the campus. However, there are a few things every exchange student should know to make their life a little easier. So these are the things I wish someone had explained to me before starting my year-long exchange at SNU. <br><br>Off-Campus Accommodation<br><br>It is not common to be accepted into the dorms as foreign students, so research into other accommodation options is crucial before arriving in Korea. I was under the illusion that exchange students got preference for the dorms so I did not do any research to prepare for the notice I received only a few days before departing to Korea stating that I was waitlisted at number 98. So I would suggest everyone  prepare for this and secure backups. <br><br>Most students will use Airbnb, Facebook, Goshipages, and local real estate agents to find a place suiting their budget and needs. I personally struggled to find accommodation and lived in a semi-basement Airbnb with a stranger for a month before securing a one-bedroom apartment near Seoul National University Station. For the locations to look into, I would recommend the Nokdu/Seoul Venture Town Station (Sillim) area for budget apartments and proximity to campus, and around Nakseongdae, Bongcheon, and Sadang stations for easy accessibility to Seoul. It is very rare to find budget apartments near SNU station due to the high demand from Korean students, but you may get lucky. I would recommend research into key deposits and officetels to understand how to broaden your options for better accommodation.<br><br>Useful Applications<br><br>Papago - the best translation app. Most Koreans are aware of Papago and know how to use it. So whether you are struggling to connect your card for the 1,000KRW meal, or need to find your textbook at the bookstore, Papago will be your best friend. <br><br>SNUCampusMap - easy to use, just search building numbers, cafes, etc. and it will show you where they are or how to get there.<br><br>NaverMap - the best map app for transportation around campus and around Korea. Tip: save your classes on NaverMap in advance and check the best way to get there. <br><br>Seoul National Univ. - This is the university homepage in app form. Easy access to ETL (your class pages) and the cafeteria menus. Speaking of cafeteria menus, you should save the webpage: https://snumenu.gerosyab.net/en/menus It is an English version of the cafeteria menus, however, the information regarding allergens is not always accurate so be aware. <br><br>There are many cafeterias on campus, each with different food and different price ranges, so finding the best cafeteria is a must. My personal go-to is the 1,000KRW cafeteria (don’t forget to use your student card for the discount), or the Agriculture building (Building 75) for the incredible view. <br><br><br>SNU Buddy<br><br>The SNU Buddy program is offered to all visiting and exchange students and is an excellent way to connect with other foreign students, as well as Korean local students. I participated in the program for both of my semesters and it became the foundation for the best of my memories. You are placed into groups with your own personal Korean buddy as well as 8 other Korean students, and a range of foreign students, and together you venture both to tourist destinations such as Namsan Tower and Gyeongbokgung Palace, as well as being introduced to local and cultural experiences such as Korean MT, screaming chants at Baseball games, and relaxing at a Jjimjilbang. My highlights were shooting fireworks together at a group MT in Oido, and doing a day trip to Everland. The buddy program has been the best tool to combat loneliness as it provides instant friends looking to make memories. <br><br>Clubs and Events<br><br>Personally, finding out about campus events as an exchange student has been more challenging than figuring out when to use “는” and “가”. <br><br>The first thing you should do is follow SNUfestival on Instagram. That is the main event each semester and the one thing you do not want to miss.<br><br>The second is to attend the club fair. Ask your Korean friends in SNU Buddy, or people in your classes to find out when. It is usually in the first or second week of the semester on the picnic spot above the shuttle bus station. So keep an eye out for any tents being pitched because that will be your first hint. Joining clubs if you do not speak Korean can be very daunting but many SNU students speak English so be willing to be asking questions (a good time to use Papago). Joining clubs is also a great tool to practice your Korean and make local friends.<br><br>Many clubs do not advertise at the fair so keep an eye on the physical bulletin boards, follow many SNU students on Instagram (they always advertise their clubs in their stories), and don’t be afraid to ask people! That is how in my first semester I joined the SNUTAIL club which ventures to a pet rescue center in the west of Seoul to volunteer and assist the center in caring for the animals. I asked a friend if there were any clubs aligning with my interests and they gave me recommendations. Of course, you can always join SNU Quill, the university’s English newspaper, and improve your English writing skills. <br><br>Hopefully, after reading these tips, you will be able to better adjust to SNU life and make the most of your life on exchange in Korea. Good luck!<br><br>
