---
layout: article
title: "Gen Z’s playground for capturing memories: Photo Booths"
article_id: 108
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Jeon Eo-jin"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/a265c91f-6236-42a9-bfc2-5b6a3cbf8bea.jpg"
publish_date: 2023-06-09T03:13:16.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-15T15:16:53.000Z
view_count: 43
---

Recently, one small booth has become a must-have in all the trendy neighborhoods of Korea. Everyone from couples, friends, or family visits the place to create and share memories. The answer is none other than the “four-cut photo booth.” Since its emergence in 2017 with “Life4Cut'” as the pioneering brand, numerous other brands such as Photoism, Photogray, and Harufilm have sprung up in less than five years. Its popularity at universities is also evident as multiple photo booths were set up during Seoul National University's spring festival to provide students with an opportunity to create lasting memories with their peers. How did this business manage to gain explosive popularity and growth among the Gen Z population?<br><br>To begin with, it's the perfect blend of analog and digital elements. Taking digital photos has become second nature to Gen Z, so the idea of capturing a photo and instantly printing it out and receiving a physical copy feels refreshingly different. Moreover, by scanning the QR code attached to the photo, they can download a time-lapse video capturing the entire process of taking a photo along with a digital file of the photo itself. This aspect appeals to the digital-native generation by captivating their interest. People proudly share downloaded videos or photos on their Instagram stories or posts, showcasing their friendships online. Through these means, the four-cut photo booth established itself as a playground for people both offline and online.<br><br>Furthermore, the wide variety of frames and props plays a significant role in its popularity. Amid the rapid emergence of brands, consumers continue to seek out new photo booths with diverse event frames and props. Some fans even visit photo booths that offer frames that look like they are taking photos with their favorite celebrities or characters such as Zanmang Loopy. Some customers prefer places with more unique and unconventional props, such as fruits or MBTI tags, instead of just sunglasses, headbands, or cute hats. With a wide range of props, backgrounds, and customization options available, people can tailor their photo booth experience to align with their unique style and preferences. Whether it's using quirky props or striking fun poses, these photo booths provide a platform for self-expression and individuality.<br><br>Lastly, the presence of various pose-related memes has attracted individuals that are highly attuned to all the new trends. Gen Z, known for their active participation in online communities, closely follows the latest viral trends and memes. When a specific pose or photo trend gains traction on platforms like TikTok, Instagram, or Twitter, it quickly becomes a cultural phenomenon, with people across the globe joining in on the fun. Four-cut photo booths have become a natural extension of these online trends. For instance, recently, the trend of wearing sunglasses and flipping the peace sign upside down for photos took Korea by storm. People seek out photo booths that can help them recreate and share their own version of the trend. The ability to participate in these viral challenges and create shareable content adds an extra layer of excitement and social validation for individuals.<br><br>The explosive love and growth of four-cut photo booths among Gen Z in Korea can be attributed to a combination of factors. The fusion of analog and digital elements, the diverse range of frames and props, the influence of pose-related trends, the desire for unique experiences, and the impact of social media culture all contribute to their appeal. By catering to the preferences and interests of the Gen Z population, these photo booths have become a popular and cherished activity, enabling individuals to create lasting memories and share them with others both offline and online.<br>
