---
layout: article
title: "Bulgogi without the Gogi"
article_id: 109
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Alyssa Steyn"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/e5d6ae0b-61a4-4bc9-9499-843dde22c8a3.png"
publish_date: 2023-04-25T04:18:54.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-10T09:28:13.000Z
view_count: 11
---

<br>I’m sitting in a restaurant scanning the menu and see the dish Kimchi Mandu (dumpling) labeled as vegetarian. I am thrilled as the dish usually contains seafood or pork, so I eagerly order a plate and wait. After a few minutes they arrive, I take a bite, and low and behold… an entire shrimp inside. <br><br>Before coming to Korea I had been comfortably sustaining an 80% vegan lifestyle. I had heard online that it would be difficult to maintain in Korea so I made a pact with myself to stick only to a vegetarian diet whilst here. Yet, two days after arrival, I had bitten into an egg pastry containing pork. So I re-evaluated and decided this  was not going to work. I will want Korean BBQ at some point with my friends, so I thought, “Why not eat pork for now?”. However, it was not as easy as I thought. There have been a few times during my year abroad in Seoul when even this wasn't enough adaptation, and I was forced to move my entire friend group to another restaurant just so I could get food for myself. I tried to opt for vegetarian options when possible and often would visit vegan restaurants, but meat had unfortunately become a vital part of my diet. <br><br>However, I am certainly not alone in experiencing difficulties with following dietary requirements in Korea. A survey I conducted at Seoul National University with 41 foreign students found that 87.5% of those with dietary requirements had to adapt their diets to some extent in Korea, as I had to. 32.1% cited religion, environment, and allergy or intolerance as the reasons for their dietary requirements. It is important to note that both ‘religion’ and ‘allergy/intolerance’ indicates that the diet cannot simply be modified to fit the cultural norms of a country.<br><br>When compared to those without any dietary requirements, those who pursue a different diet are likely to find that the accessibility to nutritious vegetarian food is key in shaping social relationships with friends. Only 14% of participants with dietary requirements stated that their diet has never influenced their lifestyle. The rest exclaimed that whether it is because “eating out with friends is difficult”, or it “limits where we can go”, the general consensus was that we “do not want to seem difficult”. We are all afraid of it being too much of a hassle for our friends to find a restaurant that can cater to our needs, that we at times avoid eating out with others entirely. “Food is a big part of feeling at home in a new place, so it's hard if every meal is a struggle,” a student commented in the survey.<br><br>It also leaves us missing out on a range of traditional Korean foods that are a huge part of Korean social culture, such as Korean BBQ Dak-galbi (spicy stir-fried chicken). Korean social culture is shaped around sharing a meal together and it’s hard to indulge in the culture if there is limited ability to share with those who make it feel like home. <br><br>However, it is not entirely difficult. When in Oido, I had a lovely restaurant owner who kindly offered to prepare me my own egg-based Kal-guksu (knife-cut noodles) after explaining I cannot eat seafood, and it was one of the best meals I had eaten in my life. An anonymous survey responder also noted that “as there is more demand now, we already see change and it's improving a lot in Korea.”<br><br>When asking a particular SNU student what caused them to become vegetarian, watching the 2017 film Okja directed by Bong Joon-Ho opened her eyes to the reality of meat consumption in the modern world. “The film scared me how animals were treated and made me realize it is no different from our own lives,” she noted. She explained that although the film is set in a futuristic world where livestock are genetically engineered by profit-driven companies to produce a new source of meat, the film is a criticism of how the current meat industry selectively breeds to maximize the quality of the meat produced, through ethically questionable practices. <br><br>In my home country Australia, the last 10 years have seen a huge shift in perspective about dietary requirements, to the point where cafes and restaurants are criticized for not having allergen labels and not having accommodatable menu items. This made it easy for me to be plant-based. With vegetarianism in Korea increasing to about 1.5-2.0 million people (Korea Vegetarian Union), reaching about 3% of the population, I believe these positive changes will occur here as well.<br><br>Veganism and vegetarianism are on the rise in Korea. Slowly, but surely. And in time, with activism, there will be increased education, increased options, and hopefully an increase in labels for ingredients as well.<br>
