---
layout: article
title: "Slamming Korea with a dunk"
article_id: 112
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Lee Ye-jin"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/magazine/7ac8e038-db4f-432c-9a51-b74066978556.png"
publish_date: 2023-04-26T07:20:38.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-16T03:42:31.000Z
view_count: 60
---

Slam and Dunk— two energetic words merge into a manga title. Nearly every university student in Korea now knows the name Slam Dunk, and their parents more so. In just three months, more than four million people have watched the film, breaking the box office record for a Japanese animation release in Korea. Even after four months, the movie is holding strong–as of May 24th, it is the only movie released earlier than a month ago that has stayed within the tenth spot at the box office. What, then, is the reason and extent of its massive popularity?<br><br><br>To Love Something No Matter What<br><br>The Slam Dunk manga series by Takehiko Inoue follows the delinquent high school freshman Gang Baekho (Sakuragi). He accidentally joins a ragtag basketball team in Buksan School, learning the joys of sport and training to enter the nationals. Revived again in 26 years, the movie adaptation THE FIRST SLAM DUNK released in January 2023 was a literal slam. <br>The movie was well-received by critics and fans alike. Critic Siwoo Jung captured the strengths of the movie in three parts: the adaptation “kept the essentials” and “maintained the original sentiment”. It also “filled in narrative gaps of existing characters” from a different perspective. Form-wise, it “engraved a new medium” into its traditional archetype by fusing 3D modeling with hand-drawn touches.<br><br>To follow Slam Dunk’s game at its best, it is necessary to sketch an outlook of the manga. At its foremost is a simple yet convincing passion for basketball, and an admiration for fair victory over vanquishment. Regardless of their background, students are recognized as equal athletes when they enter the court. The characters are all just people who love the sport. As such, the protagonist utters his most famous line when his coach tries to take him out of the game for an injured back. “When were your glory days, old man?…Mine’s right now!” Readers get a chance to witness an iridescent moment of youth—the “now” that shapes an identity. Regardless of age, experience, and background, a person grows from loving and striving for something, and this message is captured within these pages.<br><br>The manga received extremely positive reviews from recent fans in Korea. A fan on Twitter (straw*****) noted that “the reason why Inoue’s Baekho is so compelling is because he is not a character that is pitied. Usually, if a character’s home environment is not ideal, the narrative justifies their every action by the lack of a proper family. Slam Dunk forgoes these easy choices and only focuses on who Gang Baekho is as a person.” Another Korean user (yasa******) said the manga “conveyed an inspirational message that anyone can grow regardless of their age, experience, or family background” which ultimately led him to “look back on myself to see if I was, perhaps, also mocking someone’s struggle while not even trying as hard.”<br><br>The movie THE FIRST SLAM DUNK also advocates for the importance of loving something through struggle. Handling an important match in the manga, the movie highlights another character who was a step away from the manga’s limelight. Song Taesup (Miyagi) is one of the main members of Team Buksan whose backstory is revealed through the movie, 26 years after the manga. As a child, he grieves the loss of both his father and his older brother, who was a basketball prodigy. Yet this traumatic experience does not undo Taesup completely. He suffers profusely, yet protects the sport he so much loved with his brother. Fans can see the most important game in the series through his eyes, and explore another facet of an already beloved character.<br><br>The movie’s handling of the narrative is straightforward, yet its high-speed action and fluid animation catches the eye and trips the heart. For new viewers, there is not a moment to be wasted in suspense; for old fans, the thrill of seeing their favorite characters breathe and move more than make up for the expected ending. In contrast to its TV animation series, the movie successfully infuses technology to create a spectacle. Characters in the basketball court are 3D modeled, their details highlighted and traced as if by hand; the narrative outside the court is traditional 2D animation, yet the discrepancy between the two methods is minute. The latter scenes of the movie are so visually powerful that some fans have joked the two-hour movie builds up to the last ten minutes.<br><br><br>The Power that Basketball Holds<br><br>The reboot of Slam Dunk has had a significant impact on Korean fan culture across all generations, with fans becoming enthusiastic market consumers and attending or hosting events across various media genres. The merchandise market experienced a massive surge, with the first wave hitting the paper manga market. As the Slam Dunk comics were only available in paperback, the paper manga industry experienced an unprecedented rise in sales. Slam Dunk paperback sales increased by 1057% in just a week after the movie's release. Within 50 days, more than a million copies were sold in Korea. The CEO of Daewon CI, the Korean distributor of Slamdunk, commented that this is "the first time I've seen a manga sell so fast in the 32 years I've been with this company."<br><br>The basketball craze also influenced the market, for not only Slam Dunk merchandise but also real basketball items. In just a week after the movie’s release, basketball shoe sales increased by 488% and basketball uniforms sales by 350%. No less than three pop-up merchandise stores for Slam Dunk were planned for early 2023. The first store, held in The Hyundai Seoul on January 26th, reached its daily limit of 800 customers the moment the doors opened. Only fans who had waited in line for two nights made it into the first 100. In particular, merchandise featuring the most popular character Jung-Daeman (Matsui) sold out in less than an hour (The character was beloved as a star player who overcame a hard injury and delinquency.) Fans jokingly used the term "Sold-Out Daeman" due to his high demand.<br><br>Fans also connected through social media. Audiences of all ages found a common interest in Slam Dunk and shared stories on social media comparing their favorite characters with their parents or elders. Due to the massive interest, the Japanese band that recorded the theme song "Dai Zero Kan" came to Seoul on April 5th and held a short live concert in movie theaters. The movie brought in many new fans as well as old devotees, who enjoyed engaging with each other by hosting their own fan events. In 2023 alone, over 60 fan screenings and 80 fan cafe events are planned so far.<br><br>The massive trend of Slam Dunk fandom even extended to other basketball genres, creating a united fan culture for the sport. The fanbase became so massive that an umbrella term was coined for it: "Nong-Nol," a compound word that combined the Korean words for basketball and play. The Korean webtoon Garbage Time portrays Korean high school students in professional basketball, in a more career-focused environment. The story is inspired by the success of the underdog team Busan Jungang High School in 2012. In early 2023, the webtoon experienced a sudden surge in popularity for its 4th season. Its paperback crowdfunding achieved more than 20000% of its intended goal. While the cause and effect between the popularity of Slam Dunk and Garbage Time can only be speculated, it was clear from social media that fans of both were eager to explore each other's works.<br><br>The Korean movie Rebound, based on the same 2012 story as Garbage Time, also experienced a surge in popularity. It was coincidentally released on April 5th, the same day as the live concert by the Japanese band that recorded the Slam Dunk theme song. Jang Hangjoon, the director of Rebound, felt lucky to have "the basketball boom" behind his back and noticed a steep increase in sales after Slam Dunk fans started watching the movie. He also commented on the unexpected success of THE FIRST SLAM DUNK, saying "I don't think even the movie distributors or the manga’s author expected a hit this big." Fans of Garbage Time also showed significant interest in this movie and compared the Rebound characters with those from other basketball genres.<br><br>Slam Dunk is still going strong, and the fans have branched out and spread to other genres as well. A well-made movie can change individuals, move the market, and create a new paradigm. Slam Dunk tells us that the act of loving something is precious; and fans have returned that same passionate love to this well-made narrative.
