---
layout: article
title: "Creating space for passion: SNU’s Central Campus Clubs that foster personal hobbies"
article_id: 137
category: "SNU_SOCIETY"
author_name: "Lee Jae-seo"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/d7dce718-541c-4d4e-a62f-612c351c8676.jpg"
publish_date: 2024-11-10T06:37:45.000Z
modified_date: 2024-11-10T06:37:45.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p>What’s your current fixation of interest? Maybe it’s the intricate perfume-making, or an impulse to go learn scuba diving; perhaps even bird-watching. Either way, SNU probably has a space for your interest to thrive: in the form of a ‘dong-bang.’ A dong-bang is an abbreviation for ‘dongari-bang,’ which directly translates to “club room,” where club members can hang out, pull all-nighters, have meetings and store all supplies necessary for club activities. Clubs are a fascinating space to explore your hobbies as well as socialize with those who share common interests. University clubs are the epitome of campus life for everyone, especially for freshmen on campus.&nbsp;</p><p><br>A popular university platform “Everytime,” an app that introduces all clubs in SNU called “All-cul” (올클) and school-held offline events such as the “Club Introducing Event” are all ways to familiarize yourself with some clubs that may spark your interest. The SNU community offers a variety of clubs to satisfy even the most niche hobbies and explore activities that they have never experienced before. Let us invite you to the world of niche and specialized Central Campus Clubs that are open for the whole university to join and are often larger in scale. There is undoubtedly space for everyone. This selection is only a small sample, yet there are ones that are unique in their purposes. SNU’s clubs are categorized into Academic, Athletic, Hobbies, Service, and others. The provided list will focus on the Hobbies and Athletic clubs as they cater to more creative clubs that you likely may have never heard of!<br><br><strong>Pium - Room 412</strong><br>Did you know that there are gardens on campus? Pium, which translates to “the blooming of a flower,” is a club that aims to take care of the gardens in buildings 220 and 200. One member of Pium was passionate enough to describe her views about the club. According to the member, SNU’s gardening club Pium has two divisions. "Teumbat-bu" takes care of growing crops and "Jeongwon-bu" takes care of organizing the garden (usually flowering plants). In the weekly meet-ups as well as various special events, a wide range of activities can be experienced. She also shared her personal feelings. “[She] got to be a part of many activities that made [her] feel very fulfilled such as taking care of the in-school garden. [She] grew cabbage and radish to make kimchi with it, grew strawberries and cherry tomatoes only to enjoy the fruits, and planted colorful flowers that brightened up the campus. As for the special activities, [she] visited places related to gardening, planted “pet plants,” created flower arrangements, and did other unique activities related to plants.” Towards prospective members of Pium, she wants to say that “even if you lack knowledge about plants, the joy of aiding the growth of life with your own two hands along with the other members seems small but is so definite. You can take a breath of air amidst your busy daily life and find some rest for your tired self.” How would you like a club where you can heal your inner soul by gardening and surrounding yourself with nature on campus?<br><br><strong>Birdle - Room 606</strong><br>Birdle is a wild bird research society that strives to observe and research wild birds. Anyone interested in birds is qualified to become a member. As there are endless species of birds aside from sparrows and doves, this is a chance to get to know more of them. Since it is hard to find unique birds on campus, there are explorations you can partake in where you get to visit mountains and parks with club members to observe birds and capture majestic pictures of them. This club also works in close relation to different universities with this shared interest, thus you can readily meet people from other schools. With them, you will be able to go on these explorations together with other members, observe birds together, learn new knowledge about birds from one another, and ultimately bond. If you need some time to get away from the busy city life and instead take in some fresh air while encapsulating yourself around the chirping of birds, this may be a club that may allure you.<br><br><strong>Minutia - Room 441</strong><br>A club concerned with scents sure is one unique club. A variety of cultural and artistic activities relating to scents and perfumes are offered. Perfume-making classes are typically provided every week. The first few weeks of these classes include exploring a variety of basic scents and finding which one is your favorite. The next couple of weeks dive into deeper scents and building personal perfumes. The club also hosts perfume exhibitions every vacation prepared during the academic semester. According to a member of Minutia, “Minutia allows you to familiarize yourself with various scents and even create your scent to be used for your own perfume or scented ornaments. There are also frequent small group meetings to do activities related to perfuming such as cherry blossom scent making and carnation scent making.” As for the membership fee, she stated “Although the membership fee does feel a bit expensive, I think that money is all worth it since you can experience various scents for yourself as well as create your scent. Furthermore, there are sometimes 회식 (after parties) after group activities, so I had many chances to get close to different people.” What she wanted to say ultimately about this club was this: “If you have an interest in perfumes or other scented products and want to learn more in-depth about it, I highly recommend joining this club!”<br><br><strong>Hurim</strong><br>A cocktail club in a university undoubtedly does sound foreign. Or perhaps it appeals to many’s hidden obsession. “Hurim” provides cocktail seminars that educate you about a variety of cocktails. You can even recreate your cocktail and get to taste it. Touring bars and pubs to find cocktails that suit your palate is also a possibility in this club. Aside from cocktails, there are events where members can bring in a variety of different drinks such as wines, beers, and even Korean traditional alcoholic beverages, and share them with the whole club. They also emphasize that they are completely free from the forced drinking culture, and everyone drinks to their limit and satisfaction. Hurim appeals to those interested in various types of alcohol while also advocating safe practices of drinking, putting emphasis on the enjoyment of tasting alcohol.<br><br><strong>Snurfer - Room 612</strong><br>As winter approaches, one may take an interest in specializing in a winter sport. Another uncommon sporting club is Snurfer: a club for those who are interested in snowboarding. They are a part of the Korea University Snowboarding Federation (KUSBF) along with snowboarding clubs of other universities. They host large-scale events such as snowboarding competitions where you can compete as teams or individuals where you can aim for a prize. They also have parties where members can attend. Information on those can be seen on their Instagram page. Although snowboarding is a winter sport, the club still hosts activities during the spring semester so that students can get closer to other members of the club. For example, there are board exercises that can be done on land, even without snow. Since snowboarding requires physical strength and balance, exercising these skills beforehand will enhance your snowboarding skills. Snow is thus not necessary for practicing these skills. If you are worried about not having the experience beforehand, there is no need to fret. This club has more new members who have never snowboarded before than those who are experienced. Keep in mind that “Snurfer” is a very popular club, thus the applications fill out rapidly and may close earlier than the deadline. Looking for a club to learn snowboarding as a group while meeting new people with that shared interest? This club is for you.<br><br><strong>SNU Scuba</strong><br>Scuba diving sure is not a day-to-day opportunity one would obtain, especially in Seoul. This scuba diving club has been active in SNU for 47 years. Even beginners can join the club as lessons start from the very basics, though one prerequisite is that you must be able to swim breaststroke. You will be able to earn an SDI (Scuba Diving International) license which allows you to scuba dive anywhere in the world. This club does not meet weekly; they have a short training period and expedition during the summer and winter breaks. In the winter of 2023, they went to Namae in the Gangwon Province. They also traveled abroad to the Mactan island of the Philippines. Going on these expeditions will surely significantly enhance your scuba diving skills. If you are invested in activities and clubs that you can participate in during the lengthy summer and winter breaks, why not join SNU Scuba?<br><br>Most clubs open their applications at the start of every semester, and some are open at all times. Ensure to check up on the details directly announced by the club you are interested in to not miss any deadlines! After you become an official member, visit their dong-bang most likely located in the Student Center (Building #63). The listed clubs that have dong-bangs have their room number stated right beside their name. When you visit, you will be able to enjoy socializing with club members in a space catered just for your club! Everyone in SNU has a space where they can be themselves and explore their identities: clubs are just one sensational way. This space is not only physical, as provided by the dong-bang, but also communal, provided by the members of the club and their interactions. There is always space in different clubs and communities, big or small, waiting for you to be a part. Do not ponder any longer and simply explore. These spaces are waiting for you to benefit.<br><br>&nbsp;</p>
