---
layout: article
title: "Is Korea cyberpunk?"
article_id: 143
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Kim Mi-jin"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/bad71d7f-ae8f-4b6a-af0c-c877bf2a92f7.png"
publish_date: 2024-09-30T22:23:06.000Z
modified_date: 2024-10-01T07:35:28.000Z
view_count: 0
---

No society in the real world can be considered a utopia. If anything, I would imagine that each one is more dystopian than utopian. In that sense, I think of Korea as being “cyberpunk,” a term referring to the futuristic sub genre of dystopian science fiction.<br><br>Upon hearing the term “cyberpunk,” you may think of flickering neon signs in shabby streets as well as urban jungles of skyscrapers with vivid 3D images projected all over them. These collective images of cyberpunk we share are largely influenced by sci-fi movies. The Blade Runner franchise and Akira, a highly commended anime classic, have given us ideas of the aesthetic features of cyberpunk. However, what makes a society cyberpunk is more than just surface-level visuals. Often defined as “high tech, low life,” cyberpunk is fundamentally about sacrificing the quality of human life for technological advancement. <br><br>Then how can it be that cyberpunk is our reality right now? It seems that we might be living “low lives” after all that we’ve gone through to galvanize the economy and develop cutting-edge technologies. Some societal features highlighted in the cyberpunk films are hardwired in Korea, which thus suggests that Korean society is quintessentially cyberpunk.<br><br>First of all, unresolved post-apocalyptic chaos is an important quality of a cyberpunk society. Take Neo-Tokyo in the anime Akira as an example. Built in the aftermath of the explosion of Tokyo and the subsequent World War III, it looks like a high-tech utopian city. But in actuality, the splendors of the cityscape are merely veneers. The city carries a series of ills derived from this calamity: the citizens are exposed to violence and drugs, and anti-government rallies prevail due to distrust and corruption.<br><br>Just as the disorders from disaster linger in Neo-Tokyo, so do those of post-division polarization in South Korea. The country’s colonial legacy under Japanese rule, authoritarian past, and the Korean War have left bruises on the integrity of Korea’s democracy. A core idea of democracy is the embrace of diverse opinions. Ironically, the hard-won democracy in Korea has, in a sense, backfired; it’s often used as a justification for the brutal crushing of others’ opinions. In fact, the National Assembly Futures Institute claims in its Futures Brief, Vol. 23-08 that “Korea has distinctive patterns of polarization in politics.” While “political polarization elsewhere is more centered on specific points in policy and ideology, Korea's polarization in politics is characterized by the fierce fight for a moral high ground, with the tendency to blindly dismiss opponents’ voices as an attempt to disgrace or denigrate them.” It’s hard to have genuinely democratic debates under such circumstances. Out of 28 different countries surveyed by King’s College in 2021, Korea ranked the highest in 6 out of 11 kinds of polarization, making it the nation with the most prevalent culture wars.<br><br>Another attribute of cyberpunk is isolation. K, the protagonist of Blade Runner 2049, represents the lonely figure of cyberpunk societies; he finds no true meaning in life nor has any dependable social relationships. His only connection is that with Joi, an AI-powered, customized girlfriend, with whom he seeks love. But in fact, they’re just feigning love. Deep down, K also seems to know this relationship doesn’t resolve the real loneliness within him.<br><br>Korea also has its own signs of escalating isolation. As of 2023, about one-third of Korean households are single-person households, which are vulnerable to the loneliness epidemic. There’s also been a rise in godoksa; which means “dying alone,” with its rate increasing by 8.8% over the last 5 years. To lull their depression, many people engage with pop culture, watching or interacting with idols, streamers, and influencers. However, this is but a getaway, just like K’s girlfriend. Such parasocial relationships with online entities cannot entirely replace real human bonds. Worse, they may detach people from reality and even exacerbate their loneliness.<br><br>Lastly, dehumanization through evaluation is an integral part of cyberpunk. When human life becomes something to evaluate and label, its essence is corrupted. “Nosedive,” an episode of the Black Mirror series, presents a future where people are constantly rated on a scale of 1 to 5—as if they are commodities. People are obsessed with maintaining high ratings since these ratings impact every aspect of their lives, such as their access to housing or employment. Overly fixated on improving their evaluations, they force themselves to “enhance their value.” Human identity is at stake as one’s worth is defined by ratings. <br><br>Similar dehumanization happens in Korean society. We are constantly being evaluated and a common purpose in life—the possession of a diploma from a high-ranking university, goods of great monetary value, and social prestige—is defined for us. According to Lee Chul Seung’s “Rice, Catastrophe, Nation”(2021), this phenomenon is partly a result of the collectivist culture derived from our society’s agricultural origins. It also has something to do with our post-war sufferings and subsequent rapid economic growth, which have led people to grow obsessed with materialism for survival. In internalizing the uniform goals imposed by our society, our identities are in danger of becoming a series of achievements or boxes we’ve ticked off. We measure and evaluate our happiness almost solely based upon them and our humanity withers.<br><br>Legacies of disasters, isolation, and dehumanization are deeply rooted in the nation today. This may prove that technological advancement is not an absolute solution for a healthy society. Thus, for a brighter future, there needs to be a renaissance to awaken our sense of humanity. There aren’t perfect, straightforward solutions to fixing all societal problems, but still, the value of meaningful change through individual contemplation and community participation must not be overlooked. We need to remind ourselves that we don’t have to label ourselves by our tangible achievements. We should also reach out to those struggling with loneliness and offer our support. Moreover, we should engage in lively discussions to share diverse opinions in a respectful manner, instead of pointing fingers at one another. This would lead us to actually hear others’ opinions, which is important to building a genuinely stable democracy. Following these steps, we may be able to take the first initiative to re-humanize ourselves and escape from a “low-life” society. <br>
