---
layout: article
title: "[64th SNU Student Council Election] The vision for SNU’s sustainable future"
article_id: 154
category: "OPINION"
author_name: "The SNU Quill Editorial Team"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/9d30e258-4a9b-4ff8-8b88-eb01b8de34bc.jpg"
publish_date: 2024-10-28T03:29:23.000Z
modified_date: 2025-04-04T11:18:13.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p>Hello. I am Kim Min-gyu, candidate for the 64th SNU Student Council President, running under the campaign name, <i>Signal. </i>Through this contribution, I would like to introduce our vision and our commitments to the members of SNU’s diverse community—especially to our international students.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For the past few years, the Student Council has achieved many accomplishments, including the implementation of a food distribution counter system for the 1000 won cafeteria and the establishment of new shuttle buses. However, it is regretful that these accomplishments were not maintained systematically. The term for Student Council is very short, lasting only one-year. As a result, good policies are implemented every year, but most of the times, they expire without much development in the long term. Therefore, <i>Signal</i> plans to go beyond solving isolated problems, to create deeper changes within the lives of students by creating a sustainable Student Council system.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>A sustainable Student Council and the value of cooperation</strong></p><p><i>Signal</i> plans to make a student community that creates larger value by connecting diverse resources both on and off-campus. For example, we plan to provide more opportunities to connect student capabilities with the local community by expanding the SAM mentoring program, in coordination with the Gwanak-gu Office. Through this, we hope that international students will be able to communicate more intimately with the local society, and earn not only achievements in their academic fields, but also diverse networking opportunities.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Moreover, we will establish more exchange programs with overseas colleges, so that students will be able to experience more cultures, and provide a stage for academic exchange.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>We will especially work to provide exchange programs for international students, which allow SNU to interact with their home countries.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>&nbsp;Tailored commitments for international students</strong></p><p>International students are vital members of the SNU community, and often times, their requests and voices are not fully reflected. <i>Signal</i> seeks to showcase commitments that can initiate real change for international students.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <i>Increased cooperation with SNU International Students Association (SISA):</i> We will strengthen cooperation with SISA so that we can reflect more opinions from SNU’s international student community. Through this, we will create a system which can more effectively tackle the problems and requests of international students.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <i>Renewal of SNUON lectures:</i> There are many circumstances in which international students have a hard time accessing class materials. <i>Signal</i> will ensure that the current SNUON platform is renewed so that important lectures and resources are expanded. Through this, we will increase lecture accessibility for international students, by providing access to important lectures online.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>3.<strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </strong><i>Expansion of hybrid lectures:</i> Hybrid lectures will help students, who have difficulty attending classes due to time constraints or physical distance, to actually attend lectures. By simultaneously providing online and offline classes, <i>Signal</i> will increase class accessibility, and provide an environment in which students can more easily choose the classes they want.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <i>Re-attempt to host a Subway restaurant on-campus:</i> <i>Signal</i> will reattempt to bring in <i>Subway</i> so that the students’ right to choose diverse menus is protected. <i>Subway</i> is a brand that can provide a healthy and convenient meal to vegetarians and students who have specific dietary needs. Through this, we will provide support so that all students can choose diverse meals.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>A better tomorrow made together</strong></p><p><i>Signal</i> will present long-term visions and clear objectives, rather than simple problem-solving. We will foster an environment in which all students—including international students—can participate freely, and create a sustainable student society. We will create a Student Council that develops sustainably, by systematically recording the Student Council’s projects and creating a framework in which its accomplishments and limitations are archived.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><i>Signal</i> does not wait for possibilities. We will become a Student Council that makes its own potential. We will make a better future for SNU, together with our fellow students. Thank you.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><i>The author is a senior at SNU’s Department of Naval Architecture and Ocean Engineering. This article was submitted by the author and translated by The SNU Quill’s editorial team. It reflects the author’s own views. –Ed.</i></p>
