---
layout: article
title: "Striking the Balance: The Challenges of Student-Athletes in South Korea"
article_id: 160
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Luana Torres"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/0d2616aa-d089-4757-bb57-4d26d221f846.png"
publish_date: 2024-12-17T05:04:33.000Z
modified_date: 2024-12-17T05:04:33.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Imagine making a life-changing career choice at the age of ten, unsure if the years of effort will pay off. On top of that, there is the pressure of knowing that once you choose this path, there is little room for switching directions later, unless you give up on your dream and start all over again.&nbsp;&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">That is the reality of most student athletes in South Korea. The extensive hours practicing sports along with lower academic expectations, narrow their future options to either fulfilling the nigh-impossible dream of becoming an elite athlete, or pursuing a limited range of sports-related college majors.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">The system pushes children to make critical decisions at elementary school ages. Lim Se-Eun, a Korean national rhythmic gymnastics athlete, exemplifies the risks and sacrifices involved in pursuing an athletic career. She committed to becoming an athlete at the young age of 10, focusing all her efforts on making it to the national team. “I had to dedicate many hours to practice because a career as a rhythm gymnast is short,” she reflects. “I needed good results in competitions to reach the national level. That was my only chance to fulfill my dream of becoming a professional athlete.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">According to the 2022 sports white paper provided by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, over 71,391 students from elementary to high school participate in sports programs. To maintain eligibility, the Korean government declared that student-athletes must adhere to the minimum academic requirements, with a GPA of 50% for elementary school students, 40% for middle schoolers, and 30% for high schoolers. The Ministry of Education also launched online compensatory programs (E-school) to help students who miss classes or fail to meet the academic requirements. However, balancing sports and school remains a significant challenge for many athletes.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Lee Gi-soo, a university rugby athlete, explained that the Korean society generally does not expect student-athletes to excel in both, instead influencing to prioritize athletic excellence over academic achievement. “I was told to skip studying because of training or games. Our coach said that being an athlete was our main role,” Lee recalled, reflecting on his middle school years. Even when athletes attend class, they often fall behind due to frequent absences for competitions. The E-school program, designed to help, is frequently neglected under coaches’ pressure, with many students merely turning on online classes, leaving their phones in lockers, and heading to practice.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Lee also highlighted the limitations of public education within Korea’s hyper-competitive system, noting that he had to rely on private tutoring to keep up with regular students.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Se-Eun shared similar struggles. Her typical day started at 7:40 am, finishing class at 3:30 pm, and heading to practice for eight hours, six days a week. Competitions forced her to miss classes regularly, and the exhausting routine left little time to rest, causing her to miss out on core childhood experiences, such as hanging out with her friends, or going on school field trips.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Beyond academic challenges, student-athletes also face limited opportunities for professional careers in less popular sports. While the government does provide support for development in sports, the more popular sports such as baseball, soccer, basketball, and volleyball receive significantly more attention and resources than less mainstream sports like rugby and rhythm gymnastics, which makes it even harder to pursue a professional career as an athlete.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">The underlying issue lies in the system and cultural attitudes. Instead of offering broad career support, the current approach limits young athletes’ futures. Coaches often impose long hours of practice, discourage attending class, and push students toward a goal without a backup plan–a risky path given the slim odds of becoming a professional athlete.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">When weighing the pros and cons of becoming an athlete in Korea, it is easy to wonder if the sacrifices are truly worth it. Why not focus on studies like everyone else, aiming for a more secure future? Yet, some students persist, chasing their dream of becoming a professional athlete. Which raises the question – what drives these student-athletes? What motivates them to choose such a demanding path? How do they feel about the crossroads they are presented with–to continue to pursue such a daunting goal, or to compromise for the security of their future?</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">These questions will be further explored in the second part of this series of articles, which will dive into the aspirations, motivations, and personal choices that shape the lives of Korea’s student-athletes.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;">&nbsp;</p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i>This article is the first in a trilogy of short articles.</i></span></p>
