---
layout: article
title: "Living with the dead, for they helped us stand"
article_id: 173
category: "SNU_SOCIETY"
author_name: "Kim Mijin"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/46b43376-6bd3-4b75-af5e-c3faf8398d98.jpg"
publish_date: 2025-04-13T12:42:55.000Z
modified_date: 2025-04-13T12:55:38.000Z
view_count: 1
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">We live with these people, but they’re not alive. Their footsteps are right here, but we can’t hear the thudding sound. Still, we see them every day – they’re spotted here and there on the school campus. I’m not talking about ghosts in Hogwarts, but the actual people who used to have connections to SNU. Actual,&nbsp;<i>dead&nbsp;</i>people. Their legacies are commemorated by the statues and monuments on the campus, which we often stumble upon in our day-to-day lives.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">You may have absent-mindedly overlooked their presence in the form of statues or memorial stones, but they would have spotted you.&nbsp;&nbsp;Once you start to observe more carefully, you’ll realize there are a lot of them looking at you and smiling. The campus is not only a place blooming with lively workers and youthful students but also the dead.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">What of their legacies were so great that they are permanently “residing” on the campus? In what ways do they shape our lives here in SNU? If we take a look at some of them living in our school, we’ll be able to figure out how they’ve built our identity and even come up with a way to live with them on our campus.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i><strong>Introspection and creative expression with Shin Wi</strong></i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">One of the most desired assets of the SNU students is the inquiring mind. Driven to question and ponder upon the things around us, we try to appreciate the essence of humanity and nature and then express it. And there is no better place than Jahayeon to reflect upon your thoughts and ideas. At the heart of the College of Humanities lies Jahayeon, a pond that has provided a serene solace for the students in the midst of their hectic school days. This pond is not only home to rich vegetation, koi fish, and magpies, but it’s also where Shin Wi, a prominent poet and public official in the Joseon dynasty, stands. You would have seen him gracefully watching the trees and the fountain harmonizing in Jahayeon, which is named after his pseudonym – Jaha.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Why is he nestled in the middle of the College of Humanities, with this pond named after him? A brief dive into his life and legacy would let us know why. Having spent his childhood somewhere around the now-Gwanak campus, he showed early brilliance in writing and lived the life of a national official. His miniature sculpture by Jahayeon stands on the stone&nbsp;engraved with his poetry;&nbsp;<i>“A long bamboo rose above the clouds, exuding blue light. The dragon wraps it around and the peacock leans on its branch (translated from Korean).”</i> Deemed to have mastered poetry, calligraphy, and painting all to perfection, he was acknowledged as the best writer and poet in the late Joseon dynasty. So much so that the previous name of the SNU’s Gwanak campus was “Jahatgol,” which is a tribute to Shin Wi’s legacy. Consequently, around 1975, the pond was named “Jahayeon” after Jahatgol, partly to celebrate Shin Wi.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">It is profoundly meaningful to have Shin Wi celebrated at the heart of the College of Humanities. His presence embodies the timeless pursuit of understanding and expressing the human condition and nature — which SNU students work ceaselessly on. A freshman from the Department of Korean Language and Literature shared in an interview, “The beauty of his poem makes the landscape stand out more.” His poems, vibrant and vivid, not only celebrate the natural world but also evoke emotions and insights that resonate across generations. Reflecting on the impact Shin Wi has on her life at the university, she added, “His work inspires me to freely express my inner thoughts; I hope to create my own novel or poem someday.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Likewise, his mastery of calligraphy and painting reflects the interconnectedness of introspection, appreciation, and creativity. His legacy inspires students to put their thoughts, dreams, and imaginations into new forms of creativity, weaving humanity's rich collective tapestry. Just as Jahayeon nurtures the creatures within and around it, Shin Wi’s presence nurtures the intellectual and emotional growth of students, inviting them to step into his footsteps as explorers of their own inner worlds.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i><strong>Learning how to coexist with Shinyang</strong></i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">While Shin Wi’s works foster our connection to ourselves, there are other people that teach us to reach out to those around us. The most frequently seen among these figures would be Jung Seok-gyu. Never heard of him? Take this scenario: you have assignments or studying to do but are in between classes and looking for places to sit that are close to the lecture buildings. Where should you go? You would likely head to one of the Shinyang Halls, the perfect place to study in the vicinity of the lecture rooms. There are a total of three Shinyang Halls in SNU: one in the College of Engineering, another in the College of Social Sciences, and the other in the College of Humanities.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Upon entering any Shinyang Hall, you might notice a man molded out of bronze – the late Jung Seok Gyu, whose pen name is Shinyang&nbsp; – smiling at you as you hurry your way to study. An Engineering alumni of the SNU class of 1952 and a technology manager for 50 years, he founded the Shinyang Foundation to help students with their studies. His personal motto goes, “Money is like fertilizer; it stinks when it’s piled up, but it nourishes countless lives when it’s scattered around,” which is well manifested in one of the Shinyang Halls. He acted upon his motto for his whole life; we can feel his dedication as we comfortably study in the study spaces that he provided.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">From a brief interview with a Department of Political Science and International Studies student, I could take a peek at the students’ thoughts on the Shinyang Halls and Mr. Jung. “Shinyang spaces in the College of Social Sciences are great places to study between classes, and I found it convenient that it was accessible even until late at night and early in the morning,” she said. Although she said that she hadn’t heard about Mr. Jung’s real name, she has always thanked Shinyang for donating to the building students could study in. “I’m very grateful that there are people out there who care about our daily convenience and future. It made me think that I’d also like to be the one who could reach out to others when I grow up.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">His donations deeply resonate with us not only because they provided us with the study spaces we need during our day-to-day lives, but because they made us realize that none of us is an island in this society. His dedication inspires us to recognize that we thrive not as isolated individuals but as part of a greater, interconnected community. We should look after each other, for the countless hands of our SNU community nurtured us. His life and generosity illuminate the value of mutual support, or solidarity — showing us that by supporting each other, we can create a stronger and more compassionate SNU society.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i><strong>Standing up against injustice with Park Jong-Chul</strong></i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">There is a curious bust of a young, bespectacled figure and a gravestone right beside the road that connects the library and the College of Humanities. The bust displays a smiling man standing peacefully upright, as if he’s enjoying the sight of the students passing by. On the other hand, the gravestone portrays a drowning man with his face upside down. An interesting point: these two monuments commemorate the same person.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">The letters on the gravestone, though not highly recognizable, read:&nbsp;<i>"One day in June 1986, [...] you appeared, and then disappeared forever. [...] Yes; those who move forward block the time, feel history, and engrave death in their hearts in advance. That's how we think of the age of hope rather than hope. That's how we join the moments of hope, those instant moments. This is, it indeed is, your image. Park Jong-chul, here we stand with the tears that have been solidifying for 10 years. June 1997. (translated from Korean)"</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">This tribute is paid to Park Jong-chul, whose bust is right next to the gravestone. Starting his SNU life as a student of Linguistics in the 80s, he engaged in student protests to criticize the dictatorship and enhance workers’ lives. Unfortunately, he was then apprehended for his “subversive behavior” and tortured to death as he resisted giving away other associates’ names, and he was asphyxiated via water and electric torture. It was a nation-led murder claiming its power over an innocent and harmless college student.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Shocked at the incomprehensibly horrible incident, students and citizens united to rally against the tyranny and managed to seize back democracy. As a student majoring in German Language and Literature puts it, “his death possesses the characteristic of duality, for his tragic death shows the absurdity and the cruelty of the regime, but also sparked the movement for democracy among the people.”&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Park’s sacrifice indeed transcends its tragedy; his activism is a great asset to the Korean citizens as well as the SNU students, for his sacrifice practically rehabilitated democracy in Korea. A student from the Department of Asian Languages and Civilizations observed, “The protest for democracy has brought about countless changes to SNU as well as other parts of the nation. Article 22 of the Constitution has freed the academia, and countless changes were made.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">His passion for truth and justice continues to inspire SNU students to reflect on their own responsibilities to act upon them. On December 5th, the General Student Assembly was held to condemn the misconduct of the president for exploiting martial law, which has severely damaged the integrity of Korean democracy. Over two thousand students assembled in the outdoor staircase of Acropolis despite the cold night air.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">The SNU students did not and would not stop standing up against injustice, protecting the hard-won values Park fought for. This courageous act of selflessness that the students showed as democratic citizens would continue to pave the way for democracy.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">These are the dead living with us, carved into rock and embodied with metal. They breathe within the campus, their spirit unwavering and their eyes knowing. Together, they impart timeless wisdom, compassion, and courage that guide us toward becoming our better selves and communities. Shin Wi’s artistry ignites the creative spark in us, encouraging us to express ourselves freely. Sinyang nurtures the bonds that hold the SNU community together, reminding us of the strength found in kindness and connection. Park Jong-Chul’s unyielding pursuit of truth and freedom teaches us our responsibility as citizens – to secure democracy and never settle for less than justice.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Each figure complements the others, building a legacy that shapes who we are today. It is upon their collective shoulders that we thrive. We live normal lives, laugh and chat with friends, and pursue the fields of interest we love – all because these unearthly campus mates have been quietly rooting for us, their influence echoing in every corner of our lives. So next time you bump into these figures casually enjoying the early sunlight or tasting the sprinkling rain, take a moment to smile and remind yourself of what they’ve done for you. I’m sure it will make their day.&nbsp;</span></p>
