---
layout: article
title: "Gaining Insight Into Synthetic Nostalgia Through Past Lives"
article_id: 176
category: "ARTS_CULTURE"
author_name: "Park Minha"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/de7febd1-bb5c-4812-8daf-fdf8079b8b01.jpg"
publish_date: 2025-04-13T12:46:44.000Z
modified_date: 2025-04-21T16:32:29.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p><span style="background-color:#ffffff;color:#000000;"><i>Say not, “Why were the former days better than these?” For it is not from wisdom that you ask this. (Ecclesiastes 7:10)</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:#ffffff;color:#000000;"><i>Do not dwell in the past, do not dream of the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment. (Guatama Buddha)</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">“I think in the future you'll be able to save and replay memories.” These were the words of Elon Musk in 2020 as he announced plans to test his brain-computer interface (BCI, also known as Neuralink)&nbsp; technology on humans. “I mean, this is obviously sounding increasingly like a&nbsp;<i>Black Mirror&nbsp;</i>episode. But I guess they're pretty good at predicting,” he joked. Just imagine that: a world where everyone is so obsessed with their past that they spend most of their lives replaying the “glory days.” Sounds a little…dystopian, right?&nbsp;</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">As Musk mentioned though, such a reality may not be that far off in the future. In fact, it might already be upon us.&nbsp; For example, consider how easy it is to curate and rewatch one’s favorite moments on the Internet. As such, new technologies have made it increasingly convenient to present certain memories in a more idealized manner. Yet, whether this convenience is a change for the better remains contestable. In this sense, Celine Song’s 2023 film,&nbsp;<i>Past Lives,&nbsp;</i>sheds light on how familiar technologies all around us can be utilized to arouse nostalgia. It does so through both its plot&nbsp;<i>and&nbsp;</i>its actual production process, reminding us of how technology has already been helping us “save and replay memories” starting as early as two decades ago. Ultimately, the film gives us a chance to reflect on our own use and awareness of modern technology.&nbsp;</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Song’s film&nbsp;<i>Past Lives&nbsp;</i>gives insight into how our sense of nostalgia is easily induced through technological measures. In the screenplay, the audience is introduced to Na Young Moon, a normal twelve-year-old child living in Korea. She starts developing a strong friendship with Jung Hae Sung, one of her classmates, but the budding relationship is cut short when Na Young’s parents suddenly decide to move to Canada. Na Young picks out a new name, “Nora”, and grows up in a completely new space. After twelve years, she manages to get back in touch with Hae Sung through Facebook and Skype. However, the two go their separate ways once more, until they eventually find each other again in New York City after another twelve years have passed. Only this time, Nora is married and Hae Sung is simply visiting as a tourist. At the very end, they return to their respective lives, embracing the fact that they must fully close a certain chapter behind them.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><strong>Movie Production Technology: The True Source Behind Synthetic Nostalgia</strong></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Though less obvious than Neuralink,&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i> is a prime example of how technology facilitates our infatuation with the past. This is revealed in the production process of the movie itself.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">A major characteristic of&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i> is the constant use of static shots. The photo-like images fill in the spaces between the movie’s main events and dialogue. Thus, the flow of the story consists more of a sequence of static scenes rather than dynamic movements. Despite this lack of dynamism, the audience is still able to follow the flow of the story and form a specific construct of Nora and Hae Sung’s memories. Connecting the dots in someone’s life based on only a few photos closely resembles how we reconstruct our own past and that of others by looking at old photos and moments. Though this is fine with a movie which is a product to be digested and enjoyed, would it be acceptable when it comes to our real lives? That is, can our lives be fully comprehended through just a few photos? Arguably, no, because photos tend to leave out the less memorable, but still equally important moments in our lived experience. Everyone’s lives are constantly playing out by the millisecond, making it impossible to condense reality into a few snippets caught on camera. So, even if we look back on fond memories, it is crucial to remember that the past does not really consist of only those good moments. Rather, we are selectively choosing to remember what we want, however we want.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Another important factor was Song and cinematographer Shabier Kirchner’s choice to use a 35mm 3-perf P-Vintage film camera. Historically regarded as one of the most traditional films in the industry, 35mm films instantly are implicative of old Hollywood movies. The usage of a 3-perf setting along with the P-vintage lens produces a grainier image with a vintage vibe. This grittiness emulates a realistic texture within a dreamlike atmosphere, naturally heightening the film’s nostalgic nature. This perfectly mirrors the various filters we find on photo editing apps today. For example, one of the most popular editing apps in Korea, SNOW, offers countless options for producing a precise effect in our pictures. And a large portion of these aim at creating nostalgic atmospheres, similar to that in&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i>. In fact, these filters are quite literally categorized as “film”, “retro Seoul”, or “dreamy”. This demonstrates how accessible technology enables the manipulation of our memories.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Last, but certainly not least, movies—and all types of media these days—utilize music to deliberately tailor a specific ambience. Composers Daniel Rossen and Chris Bear touch on this whilst explaining the process of creating the&nbsp;<i>Past Lives&nbsp;</i>soundtrack.&nbsp; “We talked a lot about trying to create a sense of being between worlds or being between versions of your own life—in a way like being stuck in an almost liminal kind of space,” Rossen said in an interview with A24 Music. The two accomplished this end by “doing these kinds of chord progressions that don’t quite ever resolve”. Basically, the soundtrack manages to fabricate an “open-ended, middle-ground feeling”. Thus, audio was central to designing the nostalgia of an unresolved past in the film. Again, this is something we can easily emulate via digital apps. Take Instagram, for example. In 2023, Instagram expanded its music feature to carousel posts—something that had previously been available only on Stories and Reels. This is a clear indication of how prominent music has become in shaping our intended 'aesthetics' online. All in all,&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i> brings to mind how nostalgia can be concocted out of technical methods that are now easily accessible.&nbsp;</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i><strong>Past Lives</strong></i><strong>: A Personal Testimony of How Technology Facilitates Nostalgia</strong></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">The synopsis of&nbsp;<i>Past Lives&nbsp;</i>also elicits a strong sense of longing for the past, as we witness both Nora and Hae Sung clinging on to their past recollections and the possibility of reunion. But let us take a step back and examine exactly how and why Nora and Hae Sung were once more drawn to one another. After all, twelve years should be more than enough to let something go, right? Yet, in a world dominated by the internet, that is not the case. As the saying goes: ‘Once on the internet, always on the internet’. Why would we ever feel the need to forget the past when we can preserve an illusion of it for eternity?</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Likewise, the most pivotal force that kept the possibility of reunion open in&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i> was always the technology at their disposal. Hae Sung published a Facebook post searching for Nora; Nora saw said post and messaged Hae Sung; the pair conversed via text messages and video chats. All these tools allowed them to continue exploring their relationship further, despite being on opposite sides of the globe. If Nora and Hae Sung had been just a generation older, their relationship would most likely have remained truncated. This highlights a crucial aspect of today’s generation: our technology does not simply make ‘what-ifs’ happen; it enables us to&nbsp;<i>repeat&nbsp;</i>and, more importantly,&nbsp;<i>reconstruct&nbsp;</i>our pasts. Our iPhones present auto-generated videos of old photos overlayed with lively music. Instagram’s “On This Day” function automatically displays stories from the same day, one to several years ago. And how easy is it to add some type of reminiscent audio? All these features point to a prevalent phenomenon in our era of technology and information: recalling and reshaping memories is becoming easier than ever before. Even moments that should naturally fade with time can instead be magnified and idealized with just the right editing.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Fortunately, Nora is fully aware that the Hae Sung in her mind must be different from the real-life Hae Sung. When her husband questions whether she is attracted to Hae Sung, she clarifies: “</span><span style="background-color:#ffffff;color:#000000;">He was just this kid in my head for such a long time. And then he was just this image on my laptop […] but I don't think that's attraction.” Like Nora, we too must stay conscious of how we tend to easily warp our perception of certain memories. More importantly, we must recognize the profound impact digital devices have on our perceptions as technology continues to permeate our everyday lives.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><strong>How&nbsp;</strong><i><strong>Past Lives</strong></i><strong> Breaks the Illusion of Nostalgia</strong></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Fortunately,&nbsp;<i>Past Lives&nbsp;</i>involves a realistic plotline in which Nora refuses to be trapped by her illusions of wishful hoping. During the first reunion after the initial twelve years apart, Nora suggests that she and Hae Sung take a break from their daily online conversations.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i>Nora: I think we should stop contacting each other for a while.</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i>Hae Sung: Why?</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i>Nora: I’ve immigrated twice before settling here in New York. I want to make something out of this. I want to commit to my life here, but I’m always searching up flights to Seoul every single day.</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i>Hae Sung: So, you don’t want to speak to me anymore?</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><i>Nora: Just for now.</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Her reasoning is clear. She is fully aware that her real life is distinct from the stuff on her laptop screen—whether it’s conversations with Hae Sung or plane tickets to Korea. Of course, some might argue that leaving everything behind to pursue romance is always an option. However, both Nora and Hae Sung are at a stage in their lives where they wish to further develop their identities from their present state, rather than thaw the identities frozen in bygone experiences. At the end of the day, they choose to stay faithful to their respective presents because they understand that growth and maturity require them to embrace what is real and immediate, rather than dwell on what was and could have been.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:#ffffff;color:#000000;">&nbsp; <i>If this is where I ended up... this is where I'm supposed to be.</i></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;"><strong>Keep An Eye Out for Synthetic Nostalgia</strong></span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">With the expedient growth of technology, it has become far more convenient to conjure up idealizations of our past. The techniques for doing so are becoming ever more sophisticated, seamlessly weaving nostalgia into our daily lives. But by offering tools to revisit the past, technology blurs the line between genuine memory and curated experience. As we immerse ourselves further in these digital constructs, it becomes essential to reflect on how much of our nostalgia is truly authentic and how much is a product of carefully crafted illusions.</span></p><p><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">In view of this,&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i> serves as a poignant reminder of how technology reshapes our emotional landscapes. Interestingly, as a movie,&nbsp;<i>Past Lives</i> itself is not innocent of evoking synthetic nostalgia via high-tech methods. Yet, it balances this by presenting characters like Nora and Hae Sung, who remain firmly aware of the distinction between their idealized memories and their present realities. Nora, in particular, understands that growth requires staying grounded in the now, even when reviving the past feels tempting. So, just as Nora and Hae Sung did, we too must confront the allure of nostalgia in our own lives to mature as individuals.&nbsp; And as with all social phenomena, the best approach lies in awareness. Try asking yourself the following: How often do the media and technology around you deceptively portray the past as a paradise lost? And how often have you stopped to actively ask yourself,&nbsp;<i>“Was the past really as good as they say?”&nbsp;</i>By staying mindful of how technology shapes our perceptions, we can shatter the perfect illusions of lost times, recognizing them for what they truly are: stories we tell ourselves, often shaped by the tools we use to remember.</span></p>
