---
layout: article
title: "How We Came to Stream Our Own Silence"
article_id: 182
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Do Quyen"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/8d9095f0-eec3-4c9e-b6f0-1fbbe5413a12.png"
publish_date: 2025-05-25T11:21:35.000Z
modified_date: 2025-09-01T07:25:46.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">A warm yellow desk lamp, Lofi Girl on the screen. Ambient lofi beats in the background. Her presence is familiar to those who often study with music. For many, she has become a companion—a source of comfort in an oversaturated, overstimulating world. Yet, the fact that this peace we feel by being with her is curated and consumed digitally raises important questions. How does the digitization of peace reshape our understanding of it? What does it say about us when the calm we now seek is one that is carefully constructed rather than found in nature?&nbsp; Is it comfort that we truly want or control?</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">To understand this digitized shift, we must first look back. The desire for quietude is not a modern phenomenon. Long before our digital age, humans sought tranquility in the natural world—the sound of falling rain, the rustle of leaves, the warmth of sunlight. Indeed, this human inclination spans across centuries and cultures. From Eastern ink-and-wash painting of the 8th century to the natural world in Western Romantic poetry of the 19th century, nature has always been instinctively and aesthetically associated with peace and calm. This longing for solace can also be seen in other meditative practices such as incense burning, which has been known for its therapeutic effects, or the design of Zen gardens, which are intentionally crafted for quiet reflection. Without a doubt, the desire for serenity has always been universal and deeply human.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">However, what distinguishes our search for quietude today from the efforts of the past is the presence and role of technology. We no longer seek peace solely in the unpredictable world of nature. Now, we turn to digital spaces that can shape it to our exact preferences, with the touch of a screen or the click of some keys. We create playlists of nature sounds and lofi beats. We play long videos of cozy bedrooms with soft crackling fire. Using pixels and sound waves, we now construct our individual visions of calm.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">I felt this digitized shift acutely when I spent an entire afternoon without my headphones. As I strolled through the streets, I suddenly became aware of how loud everything was. I could hear the sound of people chattering, the roar of buses and car engines, and the blare of advertisements from loudspeakers. And it was not because the streets had changed; it was that I had grown used to filtering out the noise. Without my headphones, I was confronted with an overload of sounds.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Just as I use headphones to block out the noisy streets, our turn towards digital tranquility is not only a change in tools, but a response to our current condition. In an age of digital overstimulation, our desire for peace is stronger than ever. Think about how often we talk about the importance of slowing down and staying grounded. What cannot be ignored, however, is the fact that the very technology that overwhelms us is also the medium through which we actively construct our spaces of calm. The devices and the platforms that contribute to sensory overload are what we actively turn to for healing and relaxation. It is quite paradoxical—we seek refuge in a system never designed for stillness.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Moreover, there are now no limits to when and where we can curate calm. Even while being out, we can and often do escape into our inner worlds, a sign of a modern cultural tendency toward withdrawal. This distancing from reality reflects a deep human desire for control. In our digitized reality, we prefer aestheticized, tailored peace over the rawness of the real, shaping not just our surroundings but our emotional states within them. Thus, this makes one wonder—does our ability to slip away into our curated spaces offer a healthy refuge, or does it disconnect us from the richness of the present moment?&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">In the end, though the digital calm we create may not be perfect, it reflects an intrinsic need within us for control and stillness. This form of peace allows for introspection, even though its digitized nature is inherently different from the tranquility found in the natural world. Perhaps that is the point: streaming our silence is an attempt to be still amidst chaos—to feel, if only for a moment, truly at peace in a world that rarely offers such reprieve.&nbsp;</span></p>
