---
layout: article
title: "Looped in: Korea’s Knitting Culture Unraveled"
article_id: 183
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Kim Haein"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/eee8b3d7-3d4a-406c-94b6-2c49ec81d89b.png"
publish_date: 2025-06-01T12:22:22.000Z
modified_date: 2025-06-01T13:59:48.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">What comes to mind when you think of knitting? Perhaps an image of your grandmother sitting in a rocking chair with needles and wool in hand. But this perception is quickly evolving. Once considered an outdated culture, knitting has become a widely embraced hobby among the younger generation in Korea today. From knitting cafes to cinemas, there are many places now where knitters can gather, share their projects, and enjoy their craft. What has sparked this change?</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">The rise of knitting in Korea is closely related to the COVID-19 pandemic. With quarantines and other restrictions in place, people were forced to spend extended periods alone at home. In consequence, activities that required social interaction or travel declined in popularity, while “home hobbies” became the new norm. In this context, many, especially younger generations, developed an interest in handmade crafts. People sought ways to relieve their stress during such uncertain times, and crafting provided a calming, focused escape. Completing a project brought about a feeling of satisfaction and pride, while also being an outlet for creativity and self-expression. Knitting is one of these hobbies.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Later on, as restrictions were lifted, the influence of the pandemic on people’s lives gradually decreased. Many returned to their lives before COVID, which naturally led them to quit their “home hobbies.” However, unlike other hobbies, knitting has endured and grown even further in popularity. There are several explanations for this phenomenon. I think the most important factor is the role of social media and influencers. YouTube, in particular, has become a popular space for knitting-themed at-home vlogs, where people share their knitting projects and tutorials. Learning and honing one’s skills in the craft is more accessible than ever before. Moreover, hashtags like #knitting and #DIYhobby have helped build a strong online community where people can post their knitting projects, give advice and compliments, and share ideas.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">One prominent influencer in Korea’s knitting sphere is Daeri Kim, the daughter of the owner of BanulStory, a well-known brand among Korean knitters. Originally, mostly focused on the offline market, BanulStory has now expanded its reach online with Daeri Kim taking charge of its marketing. Through her social media presence, Kim attracts a younger customer base with beginner-friendly tutorials on simple designs. She not only teaches knitting but also shares more spontaneous content—knitting in different countries, making friends through knitting, interviewing other knitters, and telling fun anecdotes. The authenticity of Kim’s content highlights her warmth and humanity,&nbsp; leading people to feel more connected to her and fostering the growth of an engaged online community of knitters.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">However, what makes knitting culture particularly unique in Korea is the way that it has expanded to offline spaces. For example, there are many knitting cafes all around the country. Knitting cafes, true to their name, are spaces that combine the traditional cafe concept with knitting. Alongside coffee, tea, and desserts, visitors can also purchase yarns and knitting tools. Then, just like at any other cafe, people settle in comfortably and chat with friends—only they also knit while doing so. The presence of other knitters encourages everyone to talk freely with each other and share their current projects.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">One of the better-known knitting cafes in Korea is the BanulStory knitting cafe. The first floor sells yarns and tutorial DIY kits and also hosts classes for beginners. On the second floor, visitors can order food and beverages to knit in groups. A popular dessert there is button-shaped bread.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">There are also knitting cinemas in Korea where people can watch movies while knitting. In January 2025, CGV held a one-time knitting screening event. However, due to its immense popularity, CGV has decided to expand the event to be hosted every month in about 10 cinemas in Korea. Starting February 27, 2025, knitting screenings will take place on the final Thursday of each month. One participant reflected, “The fun has doubled with the creation of a space where people who share the same hobby can gather.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">As a knitter myself, I still remember the days when I was the only one among my peers who enjoyed the craft. Now, knitting cafes have become spaces where I can freely knit and connect with other knitters. During a visit to the&nbsp; BanulStory knitting cafe, I spent hours working on my projects while having tea and enjoying their signature button-shaped dessert. It was a joy to watch other knitters, each deeply immersed in their unique projects. Lately, even some of my friends have taken an interest and ask me for projects to start on as a beginner.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Knitting is truly experiencing a revival as an ever-growing hobby among the younger generation. Thanks to social media, influencers, and offline spaces like cafes and cinemas, I’m excited to see it quickly become a meaningful part of contemporary culture and community.</span></p>
