---
layout: article
title: " Is Korea Ready for a Four-Day Workweek?"
article_id: 187
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Kim Haein"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/8c8cf579-b0bd-4994-9c2b-dafa82d71e48.png"
publish_date: 2025-06-30T11:07:59.000Z
modified_date: 2025-07-02T00:53:29.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">South Korea has built a global reputation for its grueling working hours, standing out even among Asian countries that have a similar reputation. With the 21st presidential election, the four-day workweek has once more surfaced in public discourse. On April 8, 2025, a national petition calling for a four-day workweek was submitted. Although the petition was officially closed with 29,019 (58%) in its favor, presidential candidates and government officials have begun proposing various ideas in response to public support for more flexible and balanced labor policies. Can the four-day workweek truly be implemented all across Korean society?</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">There are two main arguments in support of a four-day workweek. First, it is thought to enhance individual and social well-being by improving work-life balance. Korea has one of the longest working hours in the OECD, with an individual working an average of 1,872 hours annually. Under these long hours and performance-oriented working conditions, many feel their quality of life is low and expect that a shorter workweek would improve their health and sense of contentment.&nbsp; A four-day workweek could also help address broader social issues, such as decreased productivity,&nbsp; widespread sense of burnout, and rising rates of depression. A study involving 61 organizations in the UK found that reducing working hours by 20%—without cutting pay—led to 71% of employees reporting lower levels of burnout. At the same time, company revenue remained stable and even increased by an average of 1.4%. In turn, a four-day workweek may contribute to a more sustainable society in the long term—environmentally, economically, and demographically.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">In fact, a four-day workweek is already implemented in many countries worldwide. The first country to adopt the practice was Iceland. Since 2015, Iceland has proven that reducing working hours without reducing wages can maintain or even improve productivity and efficiency on a national scale. Japan and Singapore have opened the option of a four-day workweek for certain occupations, such as government positions, as part of broader flexible working hours. Additionally, even in Korea, there are certain businesses that are attempting to implement a rendition of the four-day workweek. For example, Samsung Electronics, Posco, and SK Hynix allow a four-day workweek once every two weeks if employees satisfy a certain number of hours that the respective corporations require.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">However, this is not without its limitations and shortcomings. If workload stays the same with shorter working hours, employees may experience even greater stress. A four-day workweek would either force workers to complete their work in a shorter period of time or work overtime. Furthermore, many of the limitations of a four-day workweek are related to its effect on wages. If a four-day workweek is offered along with a wage cut, many Koreans are unable or unwilling to participate. If it is implemented without wage cuts, small and mid-sized businesses may struggle financially. These businesses are already experiencing labor shortages, and reducing working days would further delay production and service delivery. Larger corporations have greater flexibility and resources in handling such change, potentially deepening the economic polarization between large and smaller enterprises.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Furthermore, a four-day workweek is difficult to implement in certain industries and types of work, particularly those reliant on shift-based operations, such as healthcare and aviation. About 10% of Korean workers are shift workers, and as such is the case, a large number of Korean employees would not benefit from reduced working hours. This highlights the limitations of applying a nationwide policy of a four-day workweek within the modern Korean context.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Another concern is the potential impact of reducing working hours on national competitiveness. In an era of rapid change and technological development, there is pressure to invest more time and effort in research, development, and industrial productivity.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">Since there are many hurdles in implementing a four-day workweek once and for all, both the Democratic Party and the People Power Party are advocating for a 4.5-day workweek. However, their approaches differ in some significant ways. The Democratic Party suggests reducing overall working hours from 40 hours to 35 hours without cutting wages, emphasizing work-life balance and labor reforms. In contrast, the People Power Party proposes a 4.5-day workweek as a part of flexible working hours. The party advocates for maintaining 40 hours of work, focusing on supporting the innovation and growth of businesses and industries. According to a public opinion poll conducted by Global Research, over half of Korean employees (58.1%) responded that a 4.5-day workweek is necessary. Even more (66.8%) expressed support for reducing total working hours, rather than simply expanding flexible work arrangements without any reduction.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="background-color:transparent;color:#000000;">A four-day workweek leads to fundamental change in labor, productivity, and quality of life. As Korea is undergoing rapid societal change, characterized by rising rates of mental health issues, technological change, and an aging population, reforming the structure of labor is essential. However, it is a complex issue that involves many real-life concerns and trade-offs. Therefore, there are still many debates to be had and details to be ironed out if the four-day workweek is indeed to be implemented nationwide in the future.</span></p>
