---
layout: article
title: "Adolescence: Being Raised With Indifference and the Internet"
article_id: 190
category: "ARTS_CULTURE"
author_name: "Park Minha"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/2c9b8aa2-2928-494c-85c7-70f05e303f4b.jpeg"
publish_date: 2025-09-10T07:22:49.000Z
modified_date: 2025-09-20T02:57:10.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#141413;">Toxic masculinity and online bullying are among the growing dangers of today’s internet space, and the 2025 Netflix series <i>Adolescence</i> has successfully brought them further into the spotlight. <i>Adolescence</i> situates its story in an English town that has recently witnessed the murder of a teenage schoolgirl, Katie Leonard. Shockingly, the primary suspect turns out to be a 13-year-old boy, Jamie Miller, who attended the same school as Katie. Throughout the four one-take episodes, we are never shown flashbacks of Katie’s past or of the incident itself. Instead, the audience is made to observe the procedural measures taken after Jamie’s arrest and the resonating effects of his actions on his family, school, and neighborhood. As the writer Jack Thorne describes, this is not your typical whodunnit but rather a “whydunit.” Still, at the end of the series, we are not left with any decisive, concrete answer as to why Jamie is the way he is. Rather, we are all forced to reflect upon a question asked by Jamie’s own father: <i>“How did we make him?”</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#35445C;"><strong>When Internet Replaces Reality</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">The answer to the question above may be found in the realm of social media. When social media initially took off, it was primarily used to upload photos and texts related to our real lives. It was something that was subsidiary. Nowadays, this relationship between social media and reality has become reversed, as we often mold our lives around what we see on these platforms. For adolescents, who are in the midst of shaping their identity and are more prone to taking the internet’s words as truth, this inversion can have even more profound consequences. Instead of using social media to reflect who they are, adolescents use it as a guideline for who they should be. Moreover, constant exposure to idealized lifestyles via algorithmically amplified messages distorts their self-perception and degrades their self-worth.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">Increasingly drawn into online spaces, young people, especially boys, are easily exposed to content that promotes toxic masculinity and anti-feminist narratives, where vulnerability is mocked, dominance is glorified, and girls are dehumanized. One such example of misogynistic content introduced in <i>Adolescence</i> is that of the manosphere. The manosphere refers to a loose, informal collection of online communities and blogs centered around male identity, masculinity, and gender roles. While not a unified movement, it includes various subgroups such as incels (“involuntary celibates”) who often express resentment at being sexually rejected by women, and red pillers—people who believe they’ve awakened to harsh truths about women and society. Both ideologies are revealed to be central to Jamie’s actions. For example, detective inspector Luke Bascombe learns from his son, Adam, that a single&nbsp;</span><span style="color:black;">emoji—a red pill—holds a very different meaning for teenage students.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><i><strong>Adam</strong>: [Katie] is saying he’s an incel, Dad.</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><i><strong>Luke</strong>: He’s 13. How can you be involuntarily celibate at 13? Who isn’t celibate at 13, huh?</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><i><strong>Adam</strong>: She’s saying he always will be. “You’re an incel.” You’re gonna be, I don’t know, a virgin forever, basically. And all those people have hearted, which means they’re agreeing with her.</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">Understanding these hidden meanings reveals that Katie’s seemingly innocent comments on Jamie’s posts actually carried less than nice intentions. In this light, we realize that Jamie was, in some ways, another victim of social media’s confusing and toxic discourse. In Episode 3, Jamie meets with a psychologist. The psychologist asks Jamie what the comments Katie left on his Instagram posts mean. Jamie explains that Katie was implying he is an incel. Although he denies being part of such “truth groups,” he expresses agreement with the “80/20 rule,” which states that 80% of women are attracted to 20% of men. Moreover, when asked whether girls find him attractive, Jamie bluntly replies, “Of course not. [...] Because I’m ugly.”&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">This statement contradicts his earlier claim that he doesn’t see himself as someone whom women dislike, or that he only stumbled upon truth group arguments after “everyone kept going on about it.” This contradiction perfectly illustrates how Jamie’s seemingly innocent internet surfing eventually spiraled into a detrimental internalization of his insecurities, and how he is not fully aware of it, or is possibly in denial. Interestingly enough, it also reveals how Jamie’s peers have played a significant role in fueling his curiosity about such topics online.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">This type of herd mentality is also what ultimately gives Jamie grounds to participate in Katie’s own case of cyberbullying, when intimate photos were passed around the entire school body via Snapchat. While making vulgar remarks on how Katie’s body looked, he defends his actions by saying that “everyone had done so.” Given that social media thrives on constant sharing, imitation, and performative behavior, often without real-world consequences, it becomes dangerously easy for adolescents to mistake distorted online norms for actual moral consensus.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#35445C;"><strong>Where to Step In: Is There a Place for Parental Intervention?&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">Throughout the series, the role social media played in the incident is emphasized. Yet, many adults still underestimate just how central these online spaces have become in shaping young minds. Without guidance or critical literacy, adolescents are left vulnerable to belief systems that quietly erode their confidence, empathy, and sense of agency. Accordingly, at the end of the last episode, the question of whether Jamie’s parents, Eddie and Manda Miller, could have done better in guiding his internet behavior is raised:</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#35445C;"><i><strong>Eddie</strong></i></span><span style="color:#2E3030;"><i>: [...] Maybe I took my eye off the ball a little bit. No, but he was in his room, weren’t he? We thought he was safe, didn’t we? Didn’t we think he was safe?</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#35445C;"><i><strong>Manda</strong></i></span><span style="color:#2E3030;"><i>: Yeah.</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#35445C;"><i><strong>Eddie</strong></i></span><span style="color:#2E3030;"><i>: You know, what harm can he do in there? I thought we were doing the right thing.&nbsp;</i></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">It is not that Eddie didn’t try his best to raise his children with love and care; he made conscious efforts to avoid becoming like his own violent father. He bought Jamie the computer that he wanted and took him to football practice. His eldest daughter turned out to be just fine. The main issue is that Eddie and Manda failed to communicate with Jamie. They never directly addressed his beliefs, nor did they know that he was being bullied at school. The school did no better. Some may say there is no room for adult intervention and that handling teenagers is impossible, especially with smartphones in their hands. However, this is only an excuse to give up on our next generation, when in fact we should be actively learning to better understand them and guide them toward becoming healthy adults in a rapidly changing world.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">DI Bascombe is a prime example of how we may, unknowingly, be short-sighted when acknowledging the complexities of children’s social media use. Even after listening to his son’s explanation regarding the cryptic messages on social media, Bascombe remains skeptical, calling it “a bit of a stretch.” Yet, what he regards as far-fetched is the very reality teenagers are living and navigating. Adults cannot afford to dismiss aspects of adolescent internet culture as trivial or assume that problems can be solved just by taking their phones away. Instead, we must truly put ourselves in our children’s shoes and understand the meanings and emotions sparked by seemingly minor interactions within the vast sea of online content. Most importantly, we must recognize <i>why</i> children and adolescents are so vulnerable to all types of extreme content—even when it seems absurd to us.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">Adolescence is infamous for being a period full of risk-taking, reward-seeking tendencies. One of the most significant neurological features of this period is the imbalance between a highly active limbic system, which governs emotional and reward processing, and a still-developing prefrontal cortex, responsible for self-regulation and decision-making. This neurodevelopmental gap makes adolescents particularly sensitive to immediate rewards and social validation, while impairing their ability to fully assess risks and consequences. There are glimpses of this in moments such as when Jamie fails to reason out why he has an Instagram account. He only states that it is necessary to have one to view others’ accounts, but he cannot rationalize why he wants to see others’ posts.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">Compounding this vulnerability is the adolescent tendency toward egocentrism, manifesting in phenomena like the imaginary audience—the belief that others are constantly watching and judging. Social media both reinforces and magnifies this belief, creating an environment where adolescents feel perpetually pressured to conform to perceived social norms. At the same time, adolescents experience personal fables—the belief that one’s experiences and feelings are unique, and that no one else can understand them. Jamie’s reply to the question of how he feels about feeling ugly unmasks these mechanisms of his twisted self-perception. He is unable to give a straight answer and only asks:</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#2E3030;">“Well, how would you feel? You don’t know. [...] You’re dead pretty.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#35445C;"><strong>Building Resilience Among Children</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#1D1C1B;">So, is there anything we can do to protect children from these vulnerabilities? The most direct approach would be to shield them from hazardous online content via regulation. In fact, some countries, like Australia, have begun implementing legal restrictions on teenagers’ use of social</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#1D1C1B;">media. Moreover, there are also measures that we, as individuals, can take to help children navigate the virtual world. Beyond merely restricting access, we should focus on mentally equipping the youth to face the overwhelming flood of information online. They must be trained to think critically and resist the pull of mob mentality. Equally important is teaching healthy, growth-oriented views of identity.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#1D1C1B;">Perhaps <i>most</i> importantly, we must recognize adolescents’ profound longing for external recognition and acceptance. <i>Adolescence</i> makes this clear, even in Jamie’s final cry to the psychologist: “Do you like me?” He recalls the lack of validation from his father during soccer practice, while a friend asks DI Bascombe if he was popular with girls as a teenager. The problem is not the desire for approval itself, but that teenagers are now seeking it from unhealthy sources on the internet. That’s why adults must create environments where young people can earn appropriate, meaningful validation.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:#1D1C1B;">What Jamie did is unacceptable. However, we must confront the fact that it was the negligence of adults that enabled his actions. We cannot brush off Katie’s death as another unlucky tragedy that has nothing to do with us. As <i>Adolescence</i> takes us on a journey through the guilt and confusion felt by Jamie’s parents and teachers, all of us adults are called to question our role in protecting future generations.</span></p>
