---
layout: article
title: "Don’t Quit, “Quiet Quit”: The Working Culture of Korea’s MZs"
article_id: 195
category: "FEATURES"
author_name: "Rhyu Suah"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/507987ef-301d-4a21-8c5f-4de46b214e18.jpeg"
publish_date: 2025-09-19T10:08:53.000Z
modified_date: 2025-09-20T02:57:13.000Z
view_count: 0
---

<p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">It’s Chuseok, a holiday when all extended family members gather around a table and reflect on the past year. Much has happened in that time—from weddings to health issues within the household—and all of these topics are open for discussion.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">One of the most prominent, and often dreaded, topics of conversation is the workplace. For many young Koreans today, job hunting remains a sensitive and stressful subject.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">A survey by <i>Joongang Ilbo</i> found that 70% of workers in Korea feel burned out, and 50% regularly think about changing jobs. Yet, work is more than just small talk—there are certain expectations around how one should speak about it, even when the feelings are negative. At the same time, jobs are becoming increasingly difficult to secure: South Korea’s youth unemployment rate reached a record high of 7.5% in March 2025 and is predicted to rise further.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">This recent surge in unemployment hasn’t been easy for young Koreans, and there seems to be a collective sense of resignation around it. A study by <i>Chosun News</i> reported that the number of unemployed youth not actively seeking jobs rose to 4.2 million in 2025, an increase of 15,000 from the previous year. This statistic seems to indicate a paradigm shift: young people are beginning to treat their jobs as less central to their lives. They appear less inclined to invest extra time and effort into building their long-term careers. Why try? After all, the new trend is “quiet quitting.”</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><strong>So What Exactly is Quiet Quitting?&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Quiet quitting is also known as <i>wolgeup rupang</i>, or salary lupin, although the latter has more of a negative connotation. Coined in the early 2020s, it refers to an employee who is perceived as a freeloader on the job. The term combines “salary (wolgeup)” with “Lupin,” a thief in a French mystery novel, thus referring to these people as thieves who “steal” their salary without proportionate effort. Instead of quitting their jobs altogether, workers seemingly quit the idea of “going above and beyond”; they seek no particular satisfaction or passion in their work, but instead see it as a mandatory breadwinning task.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Many assume the term is most relevant to MZs (Millennials and Generation Z grouped into a singular youth demographic) because of the group’s reputation of having a “progressive mindset.” Stereotypically, MZs tend to strive for equal treatment regardless of age, refuse to actively curry the favor of elders, and disregard traditional social hierarchies. For instance, a popular phenomenon circulating MZ spaces is kaltoegeun, which is when one leaves the office as soon as working hours end, countering the long-standing expectation that office workers must do overtime.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><strong>Why Are MZs Stepping Back?</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Quiet quitting, however, is more than just an MZ mindset— it’s the result of deeply rooted pressures and societal issues reflected in the Korean workplace.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Quiet quitting as a phenomenon begins to make more sense when placed within the context of Korea’s work culture: workers have historically struggled with <i>worabel</i>, or work-life balance. According to the OECD, more than 20% of the working population in Korea works more than 50 hours a week, leaving little time for leisure. This stems from <i>yageun</i> culture, with many <i>hoesiks</i>: a stressful, unpaid time of hierarchical obedience, forced drinking, and mass pressure. Refusing these workplace dinners, or even refusing an offered drink, would leave a bad impression on superiors and affect one’s career.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">All this has contributed heavily to the low levels of job and overall life satisfaction among young Koreans. A recent survey from the <i>2024 Korea Wellness Report</i> by KB Financial Group found that young adults in their 20s and 30s suffer from the highest rates of stress—70% in both age groups—while 60% of Koreans report experiencing mental health challenges. This surge in stress may help explain why many young workers are stepping back from fully participating in the workplace, choosing instead to protect their mental wellbeing. Meanwhile, switching jobs often only leads to similar pressures: there is no “better place” to go.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">But pressure isn’t just internal. Work has lost its sense of value in the face of mounting economic strain. Labor’s terms of trade have fallen by 15.5% in recent years, resulting in wage stagnation, particularly for lower-tier positions. Meanwhile, the cost of living continues to rise. As a result, many Korean youth no longer feel motivated to climb the career ladder, seeing no satisfactory reward at the top.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><strong>How is Society Viewing These MZs?&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Despite these struggles, society isn’t as understanding. Quiet quitting is one of the many reasons why MZs have become associated with disobedience or “wokeness” in Korean society. For many, MZ is not just a descriptive term denoting the age of individuals—it carries a set of prejudices about the younger generation. MZs are often judged as being selfish and lazy, having little respect for tradition and prioritizing themselves over the common good.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">&nbsp;In the eyes of older employees, MZs are a reminder that young people don’t work hard because they “have it easier.” However, this view overlooks a deeper truth: the youth are pushing back against the injustices and hierarchical violence that older generations were forced to endure. In doing so, “the MZ mindset” helps to create an environment that benefits everyone, including the older generations.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">MZs often view older generations just as negatively. Korean youth have already coined the term <i>kkondae&nbsp;</i>(a Korean variant of the term “boomer”) to refer to condescending older people who are stuck in their ways. Another similar phrase is <i>latte is a horse</i>, a mocking nonsensical translation of the common phrase “back in my day.” Young people judge older generations for refusing social change under the idea that what worked best for them should work best for everyone.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Thus, quiet quitting has widened the existing ideological gap between younger and older employees. Workplace tensions have worsened, and companies are increasingly facing a disconnect between two generations that refuse to see eye-to-eye. This divide has begun to affect organizational productivity, and perhaps more broadly, cooperation across society as a whole.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><strong>Is This a Problem That is Exclusive to Korea?&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">While Korea’s strain of Confucian influence is a major root cause for the increasing prevalence of quiet quitting, similar patterns can be observed in other countries across Asia—particularly in China, Japan, and Malaysia—where rigid social hierarchies persist.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">In China, young people have coined the term <i>tangping</i>, which translates to “lying flat.” Much like in Korea, China faces a rapidly shrinking workforce, leading to expectations of longer hours and heavier workloads. The youth who choose to <i>tangping</i>, however, refuse to overwork themselves for the sake of their employers and choose instead to lie flat, remaining content with more modest achievements.&nbsp;</span><br><span style="color:black;">Youth fatigue in the workplace isn’t a phenomenon confined to just Asia either. A comparable trend in the U.S. is known as the “Great Resignation,” referring to a significant wave of voluntary resignations beginning in 2021. Sparked by the COVID-19 pandemic, many young workers began re-evaluating their working conditions, leading those dissatisfied with pay, benefits, or career prospects to leave their jobs. Unlike Korea’s <i>wolgeup rupang</i> or China’s <i>tangping</i>—both milder forms of protest—some workers in the U.S. chose to quit entirely, with a record-high resignation rate of 3% (4.5 million workers) in 2021 to 2022 alone.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;"><strong>Is Quiet Quitting the Long-term Solution? What Does This Mean for the Future of South Korea’s Workplaces?&nbsp;</strong></span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Quiet quitting isn’t ineffective in battling deep-rooted workplace issues, but it comes with a catch: it’s not a final solution, only a temporary mechanism. Now that we’ve understood why the phenomenon has manifested, we need to know how we can solve these issues and bring vitality back to the workplace.&nbsp;</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">The solutions to these underlying problems are not easy to implement. Some include promoting work-life balance through flexible work hours and encouraging the use of vacation days without guilt or pressure from superiors; reducing rigid hierarchies by fostering horizontal communication and making <i>hoesiks&nbsp;</i>optional without social repercussions; ensuring transparency in promotions through clear criteria and regular performance reviews; and creating purpose-driven workplaces by involving employees in meaningful decision-making. While specific solutions may vary by company, the fundamental principle is consistent: reduce stress, support work-life balance, and cultivate a workplace culture built on genuine respect for all workers.</span></p><p style="text-align:justify;"><span style="color:black;">Perhaps then, as working conditions become more satisfactory for the MZ generation, quiet quitting will no longer feel necessary, and younger employees will naturally engage fully with their work. After all, today’s youth are a valuable demographic to companies. By acknowledging and adapting to shifting values and changing circumstances, employees can attract those who seek not just a paycheck, but true fulfillment in their work.&nbsp;</span></p>
