---
layout: article
title: "The SNU Quill hosts first on-campus event"
article_id: 80
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Lee Da-eun"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/e3e31255-4038-4cd2-aa31-16744d48ec46.jpg"
publish_date: 2023-11-08T05:23:11.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-09T22:58:50.000Z
view_count: 28
---

On a brisk morning on 7 Nov, 2023,  members of The SNU Quill gathered at Jahayeon, marking the first on-campus event of the semester. A large group, representing the diverse facets of the club—writers, editors, photographers, designers, and adept event planners—eagerly volunteered to help SNU students learn more about Quill.<br><br>The event unfolded across three distinct zones, each designed to capture the attention of passersby. The first zone encouraged students to follow The SNU Quill on Instagram by offering snacks. Those who agreed to share event photos on their social media were treated to a Polaroid snapshot with a picturesque view of Jahayeon in the background. Friends and lovers readily came together to smile for the camera, adding a personal touch to the event.<br><br>Transitioning into the second zone, participants engaged in a lighthearted challenge: silently counting to 35 in their minds. The top two individuals who counted closest to the actual 35-second mark were later sent coupons for fried chicken, and one lucky person was drawn at random for a free cafe drink. The choice of 35 seconds symbolized 35 degrees Celsius, the hottest temperature of the past summer, representing the theme of this edition— boiling point.<br><br>The third zone marked a collaborative effort between The SNU Quill and COZA, a company that sells slumber-inducing drinks developed by researchers at Seoul National University. Participants were encouraged to follow COZA’s social media account and upload reviews on their own social media to receive complimentary sleep drinks. This zone was key to promoting COZA products as well as ensuring participants were aware of the role of The SNU Quill on campus.<br><br>As the sun gradually warmed the chilly fall morning,The SNU Quill's on-campus initiative served as a testament to the club's commitment to fostering engagement within the university community. In hindsight, while the months of planning and setup did present some challenges, the campus event was ultimately successful in helping a good number of SNU students learn about The SNU Quill. All in all, the blend of creative activities, strategic partnerships, and the genuine enthusiasm of all those involved created a vibrant tapestry of core memories.<br>
