---
layout: article
title: "Obituary: ‘Live on the right path, and that path will always win’"
article_id: 82
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "The SNU Quill Editorial Team"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/db33538d-2fe4-4593-a39f-8e431e7fd68f.jpg"
publish_date: 2023-09-27T03:50:31.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-14T20:53:26.000Z
view_count: 29
---

In memory of the late Chairman Lee Jong-hwan.<br><br>The SNU Quill relays its deepest condolences to the grieving family of late Chairman Lee Jong-hwan, founder of Samyeong Chemicals, the Kwanjeong Lee Jong-hwan Education Foundation, and Seoul National University’s Kwanjeong library. <br><br>Chairman Lee Jong-hwan passed away at Seoul National University hospital last September at the age of 94. <br><br>The late Lee founded the Kwanjeong Lee Jong-hwan Education Foundation in 2000 and has since provided over 270 billion won ($ 201 million) in scholarship for students throughout South Korea. He lived by the motto “Though I cannot be an angel in making money, I will strive to become one in spending it.”<br><br>Lee donated 60 billion won in 2014 to construct Seoul National University’s Kwanjeong Library. The library, now a landmark of SNU, is eight stories tall and equipped with the latest education technology. <br><br>Lee was recognized for his altruism and was awarded the highest honor by the South Korean government. <br><br>“I enrolled in 2018, and spent most of my time during each exam week at the Kwanjeong Library. It is very sad to hear that such an altruistic person has passed away, and I am forever thankful that he had helped us study in such a good environment,” said a SNU senior surnamed Lee.<br><br>According to local news reports, Lee’s last words were “live on the right path, and that path will always win. Learn to forgive each other. I am sad to leave without seeing one of my students win the Nobel Prize.” <br><br>A memorial hall was set up in the Kwangjeong library in September 2023. <br>
