---
layout: article
title: "Psychobabble: Gaslighting and the Significance of Pop Psychology"
article_id: 84
category: "SHORT_ARTICLES"
author_name: "Kang Da-yoon"
picture_url: "https://snuquill-public-s3.s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/photo/article/44111c2a-65e3-40bd-93f0-696f892d9cc3.jpg"
publish_date: 2023-10-30T23:09:05.000Z
modified_date: 2024-09-05T12:22:33.000Z
view_count: 23
---

“You know that’s gaslighting, right?” Originating from a 1944 film of similar name, the term “gaslighting” has become a widespread popular (pop) psychology phenomenon in recent years. Even becoming Merriam-Webster’s “word of the year” in 2022, the word has seamlessly integrated itself into our common vernacular across many cultures and languages, and it is here to stay. However, should we so easily accept such a loaded term into our daily discussions?<br><br>        	According to the American Psychological Association (APA), “gaslighting” refers to psychological manipulation that intends to convince another person into doubting their own experiences and beliefs. The APA considers the term a colloquialism only occasionally used in clinical literature, but the serious meaning it holds remains the same regardless. Yet, in pop psychology and daily life, the word often merely refers to much simpler acts of deception or even just disagreements in general. If someone is lying, that is “gaslighting.” If someone brings up a counterpoint to your argument, that is also “gaslighting.”<br><br>        	There is no doubt that the popularisation of the term is what has caused these outrageous misuses; like a bad game of ‘telephone,’ each loose usage of the word results in an even looser usage. These instances are easily found on social media or even in casual conversations with friends and are so easily encountered that many people who come across the word for the first time may be observing an instance of wrong usage. There are significant consequences to widespread misinformation about gaslighting. Although someone might not know the specific definition of the term, they are most likely aware of its serious implications. This leads to anyone being able to levy false accusations of manipulation (“gaslighting”), and many believing such serious accusations due to their faulty understanding of the term. Moreover, such accusations often lead nowhere, especially when false, as it puts the opponent in a defensive position and potentially eliminates the chances of having any productive conversations about the argument or behaviour at hand. On the other hand, throwing around accusations of gaslighting can cause the accusation itself to lose meaning; if one is called out for “gaslighting” over every little disagreement, one is bound to begin to take the word less seriously, eventually becoming so used to it that it no longer holds any water.<br><br>With such consequences, it is no wonder that some think the term should have never been popularised. Yet, the fact remains that “gaslighting” has entered the mainstream, and it is here to stay. In fact, I believe that in this case, the benefits outweigh the costs. Despite the word being overused, it is ultimately a good thing that it has become more easily accessible. The popularisation of the term has allowed many people to identify the emotional manipulation they have fallen victim to, and consequently has freed many from its grasp or helped them take the first steps towards escaping abuse. Moreover, knowledge of the concept implants a necessary wariness in us that increases the chances of recognising and avoiding being gaslit. That being said, we must work to correct misuses of “gaslighting” and ensure that it is not thrown around lightly. Only then can we stand assured that the popularisation of the word retains these positive effects.<br>
